.\" Copyright (c) 1995-2008, Stanford University
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"     * Neither the name of Stanford University nor the
.\"       names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
.\"       derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY STANFORD UNIVERSITY ''AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL STANFORD UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Author:
.\"    Phil Lacroute
.\"    Computer Systems Laboratory
.\"    Electrical Engineering Dept.
.\"    Stanford University
.\"
.\" Macros
.\" .FS <type>  --  function start
.\"     <type> is return type of function
.\"     name and arguments follow on next line
.de FS
.PD 0v
.PP
\\$1
.HP 8
..
.\" .FA  --  function arguments
.\"     one argument declaration follows on next line
.de FA
.IP " " 4
..
.\" .FE  --  function end
.\"     end of function declaration
.de FE
.PD
..
.\" .DS  --  display start
.de DS
.IP " " 4
..
.\" .DE  --  display done
.de DE
.LP
..
.TH vpShadeTable 3 "" VolPack
.SH NAME
vpShadeTable \- compute the contents of the shading lookup table
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <volpack.h>
.sp
.FS vpResult
\fBvpShadeTable(\fIvpc\fB)\fR
.FA
vpContext *\fIvpc;\fR
.FE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIvpc\fR
VolPack context from \fBvpCreateContext.\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvpShadeTable\fR computes the contents of the shading lookup table
previously specified with \fBvpLookupShader\fR.  For each entry in the
table, the Phong shading equation is evaluated using the current
lighting properties (as specified with \fBvpSetLight\fR), material
properties (as specified with \fBvpSetMaterial\fR), and viewing
parameters (as specified with the view transformation commands).  See
vpSetMaterial(3) for a description of the shading calculation.
.PP
This function should be called before rendering a volume if any of the
lighting or material properties have changed or if the viewpoint has
changed since the last call to \fBvpShadeTable\fR.  It should not be
called if shading is performed using a callback function or if the
shading lookup tables are initialized by a user-defined routine.
.PP
There is one state variable that affects the operation of
\fBvpShadeTable\fR.  If VP_CLAMP_SHADE_TABLE is enabled (see
vpEnable(3)), then values are clamped to the range 0.0-255.0 before
they are stored in the table.  If this option is not enabled then no
clamping is performed.  Clamping is enabled by default, but can be
turned off to achieve special effects.  For example, if all of the
voxels in a data set have very low opacity then the rendered image may
be very dark.  To brighten it, multiply all of the material parameter
coefficients by a constant, possibly making the values exceed 1.0, and
turn off clamping.
.SH ERRORS
The normal return value is VP_OK.  The following error return values
are possible:
.IP VPERROR_SINGULAR
One of the current view transformation matrices is singular.
.IP VPERROR_BAD_SHADER
The shading lookup tables are sized incorrectly, or one of the voxel
fields used to index the tables is invalid, or the number of material
types is invalid.
.IP VPERROR_BAD_SHADOW
The angle between the shadow light vector and the viewing direction is
too large (must be less than 45 degrees).  Either change the light
direction or disable shadows (see vpSetShadowLookupShader).
.SH SEE ALSO
VolPack(3), vpCreateContext(3), vpCurrentMatrix(3),
vpSetLookupShader(3), vpSetLight(3), vpSetMaterial(3)
