'\" Copyright (c) 1994 The Board of Trustees of The Leland Stanford
'\" Junior University.  All rights reserved.
'\" 
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
'\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
'\" that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
'\" all copies of this software and that you do not sell the software.
'\" Commercial licensing is available by contacting the author.
'\" 
'\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
'\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
'\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
'\" 
'\" Author:
'\"    Phil Lacroute
'\"    Computer Systems Laboratory
'\"    Electrical Engineering Dept.
'\"    Stanford University
'\" 
'\" $Date$
'\" $Revision$
'\"
'\" Macros
'\" .FS <type>  --  function start
'\"     <type> is return type of function
'\"     name and arguments follow on next line
.de FS
.PD 0v
.PP
\\$1
.HP 8
..
'\" .FA  --  function arguments
'\"     one argument declaration follows on next line
.de FA
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .FE  --  function end
'\"     end of function declaration
.de FE
.PD
..
'\" .DS  --  display start
.de DS
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .DE  --  display done
.de DE
.LP
..
.TH vpCreateMinMaxOctree 3 "" VolPack
.SH NAME
vpCreateMinMaxOctree, vpMinMaxOctreeThreshold, vpDestroyMinMaxOctree
\- create/destroy a min-max octree for optimized rendering
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <volpack.h>
.sp
.FS vpResult
\fBvpCreateMinMaxOctree(\fIvpc, root_node_size, base_node_size\fB)\fR
.FA
vpContext *\fIvpc;\fR
.FA
int \fIroot_node_size, base_node_size;\fR
.FE
.sp
.FS vpResult
\fBvpMinMaxOctreeThreshold(\fIvpc, param_num, range\fB)\fR
.FA
vpContext *\fIvpc;\fR
.FA
int \fIparam_num, range;\fR
.FE
.sp
.FS vpResult
\fBvpDestroyMinMaxOctree(\fIvpc\fB)\fR
.FA
vpContext *\fIvpc;\fR
.FE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIvpc\fR
VolPack context from \fBvpCreateContext.\fR
.IP \fIroot_node_size\fR
Number of voxels per side in the top level (largest nodes) of the octree.
Not currently used.
.IP \fIbase_node_size\fR
Number of voxels per side in the bottom level (smallest nodes) of the
octree.  Must be a power of 2.
.IP \fIparam_num\fR
Identifying number of one parameter of the opacity transfer function.
.IP \fIrange\fR
Range threshold for one parameter of the opacity transfer function.
If an octree node spans a larger range then it is subdivided.
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines are used to create and destroy a min-max octree, an
internal data structure that is used to accelerate classifying and
rendering volume data in a 3D voxel array.  The octree is a
hierarchical data structure that contains minimum and maximum values
for each voxel field.  It does not duplicate the data in the voxel
array.  The octree is not used with preclassified volumes (see
vpClassifyVolume(3)).
.PP
Before creating an octree, declare a 3D voxel array using
\fBvpSetVolumeSize, vpSetVoxelSize, vpSetVoxelField\fR and
\fBvpSetRawVoxels,\fR and initialize parameters for the opacity
transfer function by calling \fBvpSetClassifierTable\fR.  Then initialize the
voxel data in the array.  The lookup tables for the opacity transfer
function do not need to be initialized.
.PP
Now call \fBvpMinMaxOctreeThreshold\fR once for each parameter to the
opacity transfer function.  The parameter number is the same number as
the parameter number you would pass to \fBvpClassifierTable.\fR  The
\fIrange\fR argument specifies a "small" range of
values for the corresponding parameter.  The opacity of a voxel should
not vary much for voxels within this range of parameter space.
Choosing a value which is too small or too large may result in a
reduced performance benefit during rendering.  The function
\fBvpOctreeMask\fR can be used to visualize the effectiveness of
various parameter ranges.  Note that you must choose the voxel field
associated with each opacity transfer function parameter in advance of
creating the octree (by calling \fBvpSetClassiferTable\fR), but the
opacity transfer function itself does not need to be known since the
lookup tables do not need to be initialized.  In the current
implementation all of the parameters must be one or two-byte voxel
fields; four-byte fields are not allowed.
.PP
Finally, call \fBvpCreateMinMaxOctree\fR to actually compute the
octree.  The arguments specify the largest and smallest node size.
These values can be used to trade off storage size of the octree for
increased resolution.  The octree is stored in the rendering context
and is used automatically in subsequent calls to
\fBvpClassifyVolume\fR and \fBvpRenderRawVolume.\fR  Only one octree
may be stored in a context at a time.  If an octree already exists
when \fBvpCreateMinMaxOctree\fR is called then the old octree is
destroyed.
.PP
If the data in the voxel array changes then the min-max octree must be
explicitly recomputed by calling \fBvpCreateMinMaxOctree\fR again
before the next call to \fBvpClassifyVolume\fR or \fBvpRenderRawVolume.\fR
.PP
\fBvpDestroyMinMaxOctree\fR destroys the current min-max octree and
frees the associated storage.
.SH "STATE VARIABLES"
The current octree parameters can be retrieved with the following
state variable codes (see vpGeti(3)): VP_CLASSIFY_FIELD_COUNT,
VP_CLASSIFY_FIELDS, VP_MMOCTREE_THRESHOLDS, VP_MMOCTREE_SIZE.
.SH ERRORS
The normal return value for all three functions is VP_OK.
\fBvpMinMaxOctreeThreshold\fR can return the following error value:
.IP VPERROR_BAD_VALUE
The parameter number is invalid.
.PP
\fBvpCreateMinMaxOctree\fR can return the following error values:
.IP VPERROR_BAD_VALUE
The node size arguments are not a power of two.
.IP VPERROR_BAD_VOXEL
The voxel size or the voxel fields have not been specified or have
been incorrectly specified, or the number of parameters to the opacity
transfer function has been incorrectly specified.
.IP VPERROR_BAD_VOLUME
The volume array or volume dimensions have not been specified, or the
size of the volume array does not match the volume dimensions.
.IP VPERROR_BAD_CLASSIFIER
The fields specified as parameters to the opacity transfer function
are invalid or do not have valid sizes.
.IP VPERROR_LIMIT_EXCEEDED
The volume is too large, so the maximum size of the octree has been
exceeded.  Change the constant VP_MAX_OCTREE_LEVELS in volpack.h and
recompile the VolPack library.
.SH SEE ALSO
VolPack(3), vpCreateContext(3), vpClassifyVolume(3), vpOctreeMask(3),
vpRenderRawVolume(3)
