'\" Copyright (c) 1994 The Board of Trustees of The Leland Stanford
'\" Junior University.  All rights reserved.
'\" 
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
'\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
'\" that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
'\" all copies of this software and that you do not sell the software.
'\" Commercial licensing is available by contacting the author.
'\" 
'\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
'\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
'\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
'\" 
'\" Author:
'\"    Phil Lacroute
'\"    Computer Systems Laboratory
'\"    Electrical Engineering Dept.
'\"    Stanford University
'\" 
'\" $Date$
'\" $Revision$
'\"
'\" Macros
'\" .FS <type>  --  function start
'\"     <type> is return type of function
'\"     name and arguments follow on next line
.de FS
.PD 0v
.PP
\\$1
.HP 8
..
'\" .FA  --  function arguments
'\"     one argument declaration follows on next line
.de FA
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .FE  --  function end
'\"     end of function declaration
.de FE
.PD
..
'\" .DS  --  display start
.de DS
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .DE  --  display done
.de DE
.LP
..
.TH vpGetMaterial 3 "" VolPack
.SH NAME
vpGetMaterial \- get material properties
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <volpack.h>
.sp
.FS vpResult
\fBvpGetMaterial(\fIvpc, material, property, surface_side, r_ptr,
g_ptr, b_ptr\fB)\fR
.FA
vpContext *\fIvpc;\fR
.FA
int \fImaterial;\fR
.FA
int \fIproperty;\fR
.FA
int \fIsurface_side;\fR
.FA
double *\fIr_ptr,\fR *\fIg_ptr,\fR *\fIb_ptr;\fR
.FE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIvpc\fR
VolPack context from \fBvpCreateContext.\fR
.IP \fImaterial\fR
A constant specifying a particular material number (VP_MATERIAL0,
VP_MATERIAL1, ..., VP_MATERIAL5).
.IP \fIproperty\fR
A constant specifying one material property (VP_AMBIENT, VP_DIFFUSE,
VP_SPECULAR or VP_SHINYNESS).
.IP \fIsurface_side\fR
A constant specifying one side of the material surface (VP_EXTERIOR or
VP_INTERIOR).
.IP "\fIr_ptr, g_ptr, b_ptr\fR"
Locations to store the RGB components of the color associated with the
property.  For VP_SHINYNESS, \fIg_ptr\fR and \fIb_ptr\fR are not used.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvpGetMaterial\fR is used to get the properties of a material type.
The arguments are exactly analogous to \fBvpSetMaterial\fR except that
the \fIsurface_side\fR argument may not be VP_BOTH_SIDES, and the final
three arguments are pointers to locations for storing the material
properties.
.SH ERRORS
The normal return value is VP_OK.  The following error return values
are possible:
.IP VPERROR_BAD_VALUE
The material number is invalid.
.IP VPERROR_BAD_OPTION
Either the \fIsurface_side\fR or \fIproperty\fR arguments are invalid.
.SH SEE ALSO
VolPack(3), vpCreateContext(3), vpSetMaterial(3)
