'\" Copyright (c) 1994 The Board of Trustees of The Leland Stanford
'\" Junior University.  All rights reserved.
'\" 
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
'\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
'\" that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
'\" all copies of this software and that you do not sell the software.
'\" Commercial licensing is available by contacting the author.
'\" 
'\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
'\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
'\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
'\" 
'\" Author:
'\"    Phil Lacroute
'\"    Computer Systems Laboratory
'\"    Electrical Engineering Dept.
'\"    Stanford University
'\" 
'\" $Date$
'\" $Revision$
'\"
'\" Macros
'\" .FS <type>  --  function start
'\"     <type> is return type of function
'\"     name and arguments follow on next line
.de FS
.PD 0v
.PP
\\$1
.HP 8
..
'\" .FA  --  function arguments
'\"     one argument declaration follows on next line
.de FA
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .FE  --  function end
'\"     end of function declaration
.de FE
.PD
..
'\" .DS  --  display start
.de DS
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .DE  --  display done
.de DE
.LP
..
.TH vpGetMatrix 3 "" VolPack
.SH NAME
vpGetMatrix \- retrieve the contents of a transformation matrix
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <volpack.h>
.sp
.FS vpResult
\fBvpGetMatrix(\fIvpc, matrix_code, matrix\fB)\fR
.FA
vpContext *\fIvpc;\fR
.FA
int \fImatrix_code;\fR
.FA
vpMatrix4 \fImatrix;\fR
.FE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIvpc\fR
VolPack context from \fBvpCreateContext.\fR
.IP \fImatrix_code\fR
A code specifying one of the VolPack transformation matrices
(VP_MODEL, VP_VIEW, VP_PROJECT or VP_SCREEN).
.IP \fImatrix\fR
Matrix for storing the result.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvpGetMatrix\fR retrieves the contents of one of the transformation
matrices (see vpCurrentMatrix(3)).  The special code VP_SCREEN causes
the function to compute the transformation from object coordinates to
image coordinates and return a matrix describing this transformation.
.SH ERRORS
The normal return value is VP_OK.  The following error return value
is possible:
.IP VPERROR_BAD_OPTION
The \fImatrix_code\fR argument is invalid.
.SH SEE ALSO
VolPack(3), vpCreateContext(3), vpCurrentMatrix(3)
