'\" Copyright (c) 1994 The Board of Trustees of The Leland Stanford
'\" Junior University.  All rights reserved.
'\" 
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
'\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
'\" that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
'\" all copies of this software and that you do not sell the software.
'\" Commercial licensing is available by contacting the author.
'\" 
'\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
'\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
'\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
'\" 
'\" Author:
'\"    Phil Lacroute
'\"    Computer Systems Laboratory
'\"    Electrical Engineering Dept.
'\"    Stanford University
'\" 
'\" $Date$
'\" $Revision$
'\"
'\" Macros
'\" .FS <type>  --  function start
'\"     <type> is return type of function
'\"     name and arguments follow on next line
.de FS
.PD 0v
.PP
\\$1
.HP 8
..
'\" .FA  --  function arguments
'\"     one argument declaration follows on next line
.de FA
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .FE  --  function end
'\"     end of function declaration
.de FE
.PD
..
'\" .DS  --  display start
.de DS
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .DE  --  display done
.de DE
.LP
..
.TH vpSetClientData 3 "" VolPack
.SH NAME
vpSetClientData \- define a client data pointer
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <volpack.h>
.sp
.FS vpResult
\fBvpSetClientData(\fIvpc, client_data\fB)\fR
.FA
vpContext *\fIvpc;\fR
.FA
void *\fIclient_data;\fR
.FE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIvpc\fR
VolPack context from \fBvpCreateContext.\fR
.IP \fIclient_data\fR
Pointer to application-specific client data.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvpSetClientData\fR is used to store a pointer to
application-specific client data in the VolPack context.  This pointer
is passed to some of the callback routines (see vpSetCallback(3)) to allow
the application to define its own state variables.  The pointer is not
used by VolPack.
.SH ERRORS
The return value is always VP_OK.
.SH SEE ALSO
VolPack(3), vpCreateContext(3), vpSetCallback(3)
