'\" Copyright (c) 1994 The Board of Trustees of The Leland Stanford
'\" Junior University.  All rights reserved.
'\" 
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
'\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
'\" that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
'\" all copies of this software and that you do not sell the software.
'\" Commercial licensing is available by contacting the author.
'\" 
'\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
'\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
'\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
'\" 
'\" Author:
'\"    Phil Lacroute
'\"    Computer Systems Laboratory
'\"    Electrical Engineering Dept.
'\"    Stanford University
'\" 
'\" $Date$
'\" $Revision$
'\"
'\" Macros
'\" .FS <type>  --  function start
'\"     <type> is return type of function
'\"     name and arguments follow on next line
.de FS
.PD 0v
.PP
\\$1
.HP 8
..
'\" .FA  --  function arguments
'\"     one argument declaration follows on next line
.de FA
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .FE  --  function end
'\"     end of function declaration
.de FE
.PD
..
'\" .DS  --  display start
.de DS
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .DE  --  display done
.de DE
.LP
..
.TH vpSetVolumeSize 3 "" VolPack
.SH NAME
vpSetVolumeSize \- define the dimensions of a volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <volpack.h>
.sp
.FS vpResult
\fBvpSetVolumeSize(\fIvpc, xlen, ylen, zlen\fB)\fR
.FA
vpContext *\fIvpc;\fR
.FA
int \fIxlen, ylen, zlen;\fR
.FE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIvpc\fR
VolPack context from \fBvpCreateContext.\fR
.IP \fIxlen\fR
Size of first dimension of the volume in voxels.
.IP \fIylen\fR
Size of the second dimension of the volume in voxels.
.IP \fIzlen\fR
Size of the third dimension of the volume in voxels.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvpSetVolumeSize\fR is used to define the dimensions of a volume.
It must be called before volume data is loaded into a rendering
context.  Any existing precomputed volume data structures in the
context are destroyed.
.SH "STATE VARIABLES"
The current volume dimensions may be retrieved with the following
state variable codes (see vpGeti(3)): VP_XLEN, VP_YLEN, VP_ZLEN. 
.SH ERRORS
The return value is always VP_OK.
.SH SEE ALSO
VolPack(3), vpCreateContext(3)