'\" Copyright (c) 1994 The Board of Trustees of The Leland Stanford
'\" Junior University.  All rights reserved.
'\" 
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
'\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
'\" that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
'\" all copies of this software and that you do not sell the software.
'\" Commercial licensing is available by contacting the author.
'\" 
'\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
'\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
'\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
'\" 
'\" Author:
'\"    Phil Lacroute
'\"    Computer Systems Laboratory
'\"    Electrical Engineering Dept.
'\"    Stanford University
'\" 
'\" $Date$
'\" $Revision$
'\"
'\" Macros
'\" .FS <type>  --  function start
'\"     <type> is return type of function
'\"     name and arguments follow on next line
.de FS
.PD 0v
.PP
\\$1
.HP 8
..
'\" .FA  --  function arguments
'\"     one argument declaration follows on next line
.de FA
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .FE  --  function end
'\"     end of function declaration
.de FE
.PD
..
'\" .DS  --  display start
.de DS
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .DE  --  display done
.de DE
.LP
..
.TH vpSetShadowLookupShader 3 "" VolPack
.SH NAME
vpSetShadowLookupShader \- specify shading lookup tables for rendering
shadows
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <volpack.h>
.sp
.FS vpResult
\fBvpSetShadowLookupShader(\fIvpc, color_channels, num_materials,
color_field, color_table, color_table_size, weight_field,
weight_table, weight_table_size, shadow_table, shadow_table_size\fB)\fR
.FA
vpContext *\fIvpc;\fR
.FA
int \fIcolor_channels, num_materials;\fR
.FA
int \fIcolor_field;\fR
.FA
float *\fIcolor_table;\fR
.FA
int \fIcolor_table_size;\fR
.FA
int \fIweight_field;\fR
.FA
float *\fIweight_table;\fR
.FA
int \fIweight_table_size;\fR
.FA
float *\fIshadow_table;\fR
.FA
int \fIshadow_table_size;\fR
.FE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIvpc\fR
VolPack context from \fBvpCreateContext.\fR
.IP \fIcolor_channels\fR
The number of color channels per pixel (1 or 3).
.IP \fInum_materials\fR
The number of material types.
.IP \fIcolor_field\fR
Field number for voxel field containing color lookup table index.
.IP \fIcolor_table\fR
Color lookup table.
.IP \fIcolor_table_size\fR
Size of color lookup table in bytes.
.IP \fIweight_field\fR
Field number for voxel field containing material weight lookup table
index.
.IP \fIweight_table\fR
Material weight lookup table.
.IP \fIweight_table_size\fR
Size of material weight lookup table in bytes.
.IP \fIshadow_table\fR
Shadow color lookup table.
.IP \fIshadow_table_size\fR
Size of shadow color lookup table in bytes.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvpSetShadowLookupShader\fR is used to specify lookup tables that
define a shading function for rendering a volume with shadows.  It
should be used instead of \fBvpSetLookupShader\fR when shadows are
enabled.
.PP
VolPack supports a fast, one-pass shadow algorithm.  The algorithm
computes the fraction of light from a given light source that reaches
each voxel.  The fraction is then used to attenuate the diffuse and
specular shading terms associated with that light source, producing a
dark shadow in areas that are hidden from the light source.  The
implementation uses lookup tables so that most of the shading
calculation can be precomputed.
.PP
In order to compute the shadows in a single pass the algorithm places
a restriction on the direction of the light source: the light casting
the shadows must not be more than 45 degrees from the viewing
direction.  The quality of the shadows may degrade if the angle
approaches 45 degrees.  The current implementation allows shadows
to be cast only from one light source.  Additional lights may be
enabled, but they will not cast shadows.
.PP
To make a rendering with shadows, the following steps must be performed:
.IP
Call \fBvpSetShadowLookupShader\fR to define the lookup tables (see
discussion below).
.IP
Call \fBvpSeti\fR with the VP_SHADOW_LIGHT option to specify which
light will cast shadows.  The current implementation only allows one
light to be specified.
.IP
Call \fBvpSeti\fR with the VP_SHADOW_BIAS option to set the shadow
bias value (see discussion below).
.IP
Call \fBvpEnable\fR with the VP_SHADOW option to enable shadows.
.IP
Call \fBvpShadeTable\fR as usual to initialize the lookup tables.
.IP
Call one of the rendering routines.
.PP
\fBvpSetShadowLookupShader\fR defines the lookup tables required for
the shading and shadowing algorithm.  The first nine arguments are
identical to the arguments for \fBvpSetLookupShader\fR (see the
corresponding man page).  The remaining two arguments specify an
additional color lookup table, \fIshadow_table,\fR with the same
dimensions as \fIcolor_table\fR.  The contents of the table will be
initialized by \fBvpShadeTable\fR.
.PP
The call to \fBvpSeti\fR with the VP_SHADOW_BIAS option specifies an
offset to eliminate self-shadowing.  Self-shadowing is an intrinsic
problem when implementing shadow algorithms for volume rendering.
Consider a single voxelized object consisting of an opaque core
surrounded by a "halo" of lower-opacity voxels (necessary for the scene
to be band-limited).  As a light ray pierces the halo its strength is
attenuated.  By the time the light reaches the high-opacity region a
significant fraction of the light may be obscured, resulting in a
general darkening of the image even if no shadows should be
present.  The problem can be corrected by moving the shadow a small
distance along the direction of the light rays.  VP_SHADOW_BIAS
specifies the distance of the bias in units of voxels.  The optimal
value depends on the data set.  Increase the bias until it has no more
effect on overall image brightness, but do not increase it too far or
small features in the data will no longer produce correct shadows.
.PP
\fBvpShadeTable\fR initializes the shading lookup tables.  It operates
differently when shadows are enabled.  Instead of computing one color
for each
surface normal vector and storing the results in \fIcolor_table,\fR
the routine computes two colors terms.  The first term is the portion
of the voxel color due to the diffuse and specular components of the
shadow light.  This value is stored in \fIshadow_table\fR.  The second
term contains the contribution of all other light source and the
ambient light term, and is stored in \fIcolor_table.\fR  During
rendering the color of a voxel is computed by extracting a surface
normal from the voxel, using the surface normal to index both
\fIcolor_table\fR and \fIshadow_table,\fR attenuating the value
from \fIshadow_table\fR by the local strength of the shadow light, and
then adding the two terms together.  The local strength of the shadow
light is found by extracting a value from the shadow buffer, an
internal data structure that is updated during rendering.
.PP
The values in the shading lookup tables may be initialized before or
after calling \fBvpSetShadowLookupShader.\fR  Typically
\fBvpSetShadowLookupShader\fR is called once at the beginning of a rendering
session, and then \fBvpShadeTable\fR is called whenever the
user changes the lighting and shading parameters or the viewing
direction.
.PP
The shadow buffer is an internal 2D array used to maintain state
during rendering.  There are several state variables that can be used
to query its current size in pixels (VP_SHADOW_WIDTH and
VP_SHADOW_HEIGHT) and to suggest a size (VP_SHADOW_WIDTH_HINT and
VP_SHADOW_HEIGHT_HINT).  The required size depends on the volume size
and the shadow light's direction.  Normally the buffer is
automatically resized when necessary.
.SH "STATE VARIABLES"
Information about the current shading table parameters can be
retrieved with the following state variable codes (see vpGeti(3)):
VP_COLOR_CHANNELS, VP_SHADE_COLOR_TABLE, VP_SHADE_COLOR_SIZE,
VP_SHADE_WEIGHT_TABLE, VP_SHADE_WEIGHT_SIZE, VP_SHADE_COLOR_FIELD,
VP_SHADE_WEIGHT_FIELD, VP_MATERIAL_COUNT, VP_SHADOW, VP_SHADOW_LIGHT,
VP_SHADOW_WIDTH_HINT, VP_SHADOW_HEIGHT_HINT, VP_SHADOW_WIDTH,
VP_SHADOW_HEIGHT, VP_SHADOW_COLOR_TABLE, VP_SHADOW_COLOR_SIZE,
VP_SHADOW_BIAS
.SH ERRORS
The normal return value is VP_OK.  The following error return values
are possible:
.IP VPERROR_BAD_VALUE
One or more of the arguments has an invalid value or is out of range.
.IP VPERROR_LIMIT_EXCEEDED
The \fInum_materials\fR argument has exceeded an internal limit.
Change the value of VP_MAX_MATERIAL in volpack.h and recompile the
VolPack library.
.SH SEE ALSO
VolPack(3), vpCreateContext(3), vpShadeTable(3), vpSetLookupShader(3)
