'\" Copyright (c) 1994 The Board of Trustees of The Leland Stanford
'\" Junior University.  All rights reserved.
'\" 
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
'\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
'\" that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
'\" all copies of this software and that you do not sell the software.
'\" Commercial licensing is available by contacting the author.
'\" 
'\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
'\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
'\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
'\" 
'\" Author:
'\"    Phil Lacroute
'\"    Computer Systems Laboratory
'\"    Electrical Engineering Dept.
'\"    Stanford University
'\" 
'\" $Date$
'\" $Revision$
'\"
'\" Macros
'\" .FS <type>  --  function start
'\"     <type> is return type of function
'\"     name and arguments follow on next line
.de FS
.PD 0v
.PP
\\$1
.HP 8
..
'\" .FA  --  function arguments
'\"     one argument declaration follows on next line
.de FA
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .FE  --  function end
'\"     end of function declaration
.de FE
.PD
..
'\" .DS  --  display start
.de DS
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .DE  --  display done
.de DE
.LP
..
.TH vpSetVoxelField 3 "" VolPack
.SH NAME
vpSetVoxelField, vpFieldOffset \- define the size and location of a
voxel field
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <volpack.h>
.sp
.FS vpResult
\fBvpSetVoxelField(\fIvpc, field_num, field_size, field_offset,
field_max\fB)\fR
.FA
vpContext *\fIvpc;\fR
.FA
int \fIfield_num;\fR
.FA
int \fIfield_size;\fR
.FA
int \fIfield_offset;\fR
.FA
int \fIfield_max;\fR
.FE
.sp
.FS int
\fBvpFieldOffset(\fIvoxel_ptr, field_name\fB)\fR
.FA
vpContext *\fIvpc;\fR
.FA
LITERAL \fIfield_name;\fR
.FE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIvpc\fR
VolPack context from \fBvpCreateContext.\fR
.IP \fIfield_num\fR
Field number for the field to define (first field is 0).
.IP \fIfield_size\fR
Size of the field in bytes.
.IP \fIfield_offset\fR
Number of bytes from the beginning of the voxel to the beginning of
the field.
.IP \fIfield_max\fR
Maximum possible value of the field.
.IP \fIvoxel_ptr\fR
Pointer to a C structure defining the fields in the voxel.
.IP \fIfield_name\fR
Literal name of the voxel field in the C structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvpSetVoxelField\fR is used to define the size and location of each
field in a voxel.  Once you have chosen the sizes and order for the
voxel fields, call \fBvpSetVoxelSize\fR once and then call
\fBvpSetVoxelField\fR once for each field.  Each
field has a unique field number (the \fIfield_num\fR argument); the
first field is 0, the next is 1, and so on, up to one less than the
total number of fields defined with \fIVpSetVoxelSize\fR.  The
\fIfield_max\fR argument is used to determine the required size for
lookup tables indexed by the value in a particular field; the maximum
field value may be any number from 0 to the maximum unsigned integer
representable by the field size.
.PP
If you have declared the layout of a voxel using a C structure then
you can use the \fIsizeof\fR operator and the \fBvpFieldOffset\fR
macro to compute the field sizes and offsets.  \fBvpFieldOffset\fR
returns the number of bytes from the beginning of a C structure to the
beginning of a particular field in the structure.  For example, the
following code shows how to declare the size and offset for one
voxel field:
.DS
.ta 18
.nf
struct voxel {
    char field0;
    char field1;
    short field2;
} *dummy_voxel;

#define SIZE_0	sizeof(char)
#define OFFSET_0	vpFieldOffset(dummy_voxel, field0)
#define MAX_0	127

vpSetVoxelField(vpc, 0, SIZE_0, OFFSET_0, MAX_0);
.DE
.PP
The size of each field must be 1, 2 or 4 bytes.
You must also obey any byte-alignment restrictions required by your
hardware.  On many machines, two-byte fields must begin on a two-byte
boundary and four-byte fields must begin on a four-byte boundary.
The total size of a voxel may also need to be padded so that voxels
packed one after the other still obey the alignment restrictions.
If you declare your voxel as a C structure and use the \fIsizeof\fR
operator and the \fBvpFieldOffset\fR macro then you should always get
correct results.  However, if you do not consider alignment
restrictions when choosing the voxel field ordering the compiler may
have to insert padding for you, resulting in wasted memory.
.PP
Some of the VolPack routines require you to declare fields of a
particular size in order to store their results.  The functions to
precompute surface normals and gradient magnitudes (see
vpVolumeNormals(3), vpScanlineNormals(3), vpClassifyVolume(3),
vpClassifyScalars(3) and vpClassifyScanline(3)) can optionally store a
one-byte scalar value, a one-byte
gradient magnitude, and a two-byte surface normal value in each voxel.
The following constants defined in volpack.h give the corresponding
maximum field values: VP_SCALAR_MAX, VP_GRAD_MAX, and VP_NORM_MAX.
If you choose not to use these functions then there is no need to
declare these fields.
.PP
It is usually not necessary to declare a field for the voxel opacity
if the opacity can be computed from the other voxel fields.  See
vpSetClassifierTable(3) for further discussion.
.PP
If the call to \fBvpSetVoxelSize\fR succeeds, any existing precomputed
volume data structures in the context are destroyed.
.SH "STATE VARIABLES"
The current voxel field parameters can be retrieved with the following
state variable codes (see vpGeti(3)): VP_FIELD_SIZES, VP_FIELD_OFFSETS,
VP_FIELD_MAXES.
.SH ERRORS
The normal return value is VP_OK.  The following error return value
is possible:
.IP VPERROR_BAD_VALUE
The field number, size or offset is out of range.
.SH SEE ALSO
VolPack(3), vpCreateContext(3), vpSetVoxelSize(3)
