'\" Copyright (c) 1994 The Board of Trustees of The Leland Stanford
'\" Junior University.  All rights reserved.
'\" 
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
'\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
'\" that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
'\" all copies of this software and that you do not sell the software.
'\" Commercial licensing is available by contacting the author.
'\" 
'\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
'\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
'\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
'\" 
'\" Author:
'\"    Phil Lacroute
'\"    Computer Systems Laboratory
'\"    Electrical Engineering Dept.
'\"    Stanford University
'\" 
'\" $Date$
'\" $Revision$
'\"
'\" Macros
'\" .FS <type>  --  function start
'\"     <type> is return type of function
'\"     name and arguments follow on next line
.de FS
.PD 0v
.PP
\\$1
.HP 8
..
'\" .FA  --  function arguments
'\"     one argument declaration follows on next line
.de FA
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .FE  --  function end
'\"     end of function declaration
.de FE
.PD
..
'\" .DS  --  display start
.de DS
.IP " " 4
..
'\" .DE  --  display done
.de DE
.LP
..
.TH vpWindowPHIGS 3 "" VolPack
.SH NAME
vpWindowPHIGS \- multiply the projection matrix by a PHIGS viewing matrix
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <volpack.h>
.sp
.FS vpResult
\fBvpWindowPHIGS(\fIvpc, vrp, vpn, vup, prp, umin, umax, vmin, vmax,
front, back, projection_type\fB)\fR
.FA
vpContext *\fIvpc;\fR
.FA
vpVector3 \fIvrp, vpn, vup;\fR
.FA
vpVector3 \fIprp;\fR
.FA
double \fIumin, umax, vmin, vmax, front, back;\fR
.FA
int \fIprojection_type;\fR
.FE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIvpc\fR
VolPack context from \fBvpCreateContext.\fR
.IP \fIvrp\fR
Point specifying the view reference point.
.IP \fIvpn\fR
Vector specifying the view plane normal.
.IP \fIvup\fR
Vector specifying the view up vector.
.IP \fIprp\fR
Point specifying the projection reference point (in view reference
coordinates).
.IP \fIumin\fR
Left coordinate of clipping window (in view reference coordinates).
.IP \fIumax\fR
Right coordinate of clipping window (in view reference coordinates).
.IP \fIvmin\fR
Bottom coordinate of clipping window (in view reference coordinates).
.IP \fIvmax\fR
Top coordinate of clipping window (in view reference coordinates).
.IP \fIfront\fR
Coordinate of the near depth clipping plane (in view reference coordinates).
.IP \fIback\fR
Coordinate of the far depth clipping plane (in view reference coordinates).
.IP \fIprojection_type\fR
Projection type code.  Currently, must be VP_PARALLEL.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvpWindowPHIGS\fR is used to multiply the current projection matrix
by a viewing and projection matrix specified by means of the PHIGS
viewing model.  This model combines specification of the viewpoint,
projection and clipping parameters.  The resulting matrix is stored in
the projection transformation matrix.  Since both the view and the
projection are specified in this one matrix, normally the view
transformation matrix is not used in conjunction with
\fBvpWindowPHIGS\fR (it should be set to the identity).  Currently,
only parallel projections may be specified.  For an alternative view
specification model, see vpWindow(3).
.PP
Assuming that the view transformation matrix is the identity, the
matrix produced by \fBvpWindowPHIGS\fR should transform world
coordinates into clip coordinates.  This transformation is specified
as follows.  First, the projection plane (called the view plane) is
defined by a point on the plane (the view reference point, \fIvrp\fR)
and a vector normal to the plane (the view plane normal, \fIvpn\fR).
Next, a coordinate system called the view reference coordinate (VRC)
system is specified by means of the view plane normal and the view up
vector, \fIvup.\fR  The origin of VRC coordinates is the view
reference point.  The basis vectors of VRC coordinates are:
.DS
\fBu\fR = v cross n
.br
\fBv\fR = the projection of \fIvup\fR parallel to \fIvpn\fR onto the
view plane
.br
\fBn\fR = \fIvpn\fR
.DE
This coordinate system is used to specify the direction of projection
and the clipping window.  The clipping window bounds in the projection
plane are given by \fIumin, umax, vmin\fR and \fIvmax.\fR  The 
direction of projection is the vector from the center of the clipping
window to the projection reference point \fI(prp),\fR which is also
specified in VRC coordinates.  Finally, the front and back clipping
planes are given by n=\fIfront\fR and n=\fIback\fR in VRC coordinates.
.PP
For a more detailed explanation of this view specification model, see
\fIComputer Graphics: Principles and Practice\fR by Foley, vanDam,
Feiner and Hughes.
.SH "STATE VARIABLES"
The current matrix concatenation parameters can be retrieved with the
following state variable codes (see vpGeti(3)): VP_CONCAT_MODE.
.SH ERRORS
The normal return value is VP_OK.  The following error return values
are possible:
.IP VPERROR_BAD_VALUE
The clipping plane coordinates are invalid (\fIumin >= umax\fR,
etc.).
.IP VPERROR_BAD_OPTION
The \fItype\fR argument is invalid.
.IP VPERROR_SINGULAR
The vectors defining view reference coordinates are not mutually
orthogonal, or the projection reference point lies in the view plane.
.SH SEE ALSO
VolPack(3), vpCreateContext(3), vpCurrentMatrix(3), vpWindow(3)
